---
title: Installing Arch Linux on a Dell Vostro 1500
layout: post.hbs
date: 2014-04-17
---

**Notice from 2015: Although I don't use Arch anymore, last time I had to
install it it didn't have these problems anymore, except the wifi card
problem.**

This is for future reference and also for other users that may run into trouble
with this, here's how you can fix these issues.  It's likely you don't even own
a Vostro 1500 though, this thing is like 7 or 8 years old (2007).

Anyway, here are the issues we're gonna cover and how to fix them:

- The wifi card firmware issues
- Laptop's backlight does not work (at all)

## The wifi card

All right.  So this seems to be a sort of popular problem on Linux, I even have
this problem on Windows XP.

OK so let's do the basics first.  Make sure this is the problem you're having.
There are plenty of guides out there on the internet on how to fix this but I am
gonna share a solution with you that works offline, which has been a lot of the
time I install a distro because Ethernet is scarce for me, if only I had a long
Ethernet cable... I have a 2 meter one, which sadly isn't enough so I gotta sit
on the floor while installing.  Which you know, is OK, just a little bit
uncomfortable.

Of course the way to do ths is get the necessary stuff while you have the
precious internet.  Find the necessary firmware somewhere on the internet OR
download the AUR package for this, [`b43-firmware`][b43-aur].  I've done it with
only the first, I thought I would need it so I downloaded the second but in the
end I didn't need it thankfully.

[b43-aur]: https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/b43-firmware/

So this is just the solution I have, of course when you've installed Arch you
would mount the USB with the AUR/firmware and install it.  The copy of the
firmware I have has instructions but I can't seem to find where I got it from.
The AUR you'll just have to know [how to install AUR packages][aur-install].

[aur-install]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Arch_User_Repository#Installing_packages

I think I also had to [blacklist][b] the `bcma` module.  Maybe, the blacklist
line is there but I'm not entirely sure if it's necessary.

[b]: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Kernel_modules#Blacklisting

## The backlight issues

All right.  So this one completely baffled me when I came across it because
I couldn't figure out what the problem was and there was some intense Googleing
happening.  Not to mention I could barely see anything on the screen because it
was really dark.

So the problem seems to be because of wrong priorities when loading the stuff
that manages backlighting. As explained in [this bug report for
Debian][d](?).

[d]: https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?msg=5;att=0;bug=651741

What I tried there had worked so here's how I fixed the issue, the process or
solution may not be exactly the same for you.

Add `acpi_backlight=vendor` to the bootloader's kernel line, which is managed by
whatever bootloader you have, I use Syslinux so that was quite painless.  And
blacklist the `dell-laptop` module.

The whole reason that works and stuff is explained in that bug report so read it
if you're interested, or not if you're not interested.

All right, I hope that helps.  This will certainly save me hours in the future,
I hope.
