---
title: Switching from Zsh to fish
layout: post
date: 2013-11-13
tags:
    - blog
---

*Note that I already switched back to zsh. lol*

In this post I'll be talking about my experience with switching from zsh (**Z**
**sh**ell) to fish (**F**riendly **I**nteractive **sh**ell). I'm not gonna talk
about how or why it's better than the other shells, I'm only gonna talk about
the process of switching.

Where to start... well, how about starting with the fact that I tried to do the
switch before? I did try to do the switch before, I don't remember exactly what
problems I had last time but I'm pretty sure it was something with Vim or
something.

I decided to try the switch again taking advantage of the fact that a new
version had been released recently
([v2.1.0](http://fishshell.com/release_notes.html)). Seemed like a good idea to
try again, also the fact that I like the features it has, of course.

The switch wasn't as problem-free as I wished but it was quite a smooth process.

First, I was running across problems with Vim which I imagine I wasn't able to
solve last time, but I solved this time. The problem was a startup error that
Vim was complaining about not finding a certain file or something. I just had to
add the following to the top of my `.vimrc` file to fix it:

```text
if $SHELL =~ 'fish'
	set shell=/bin/sh
endif
```

Basically, if Vim can detect the `$SHELL` variable is `fish` it'll tell Vim to
interact with the current shell as if it was `sh`. As I understand it, don't
take my word for it, please. That fixed that.

Another problem I was running into was that Emacs was complaining about not
being able to find the `package.el` file. The reason for the error was that
I was opening an old version of Emacs (v22.x). This was just a matter of
updating the `$PATH` variable, that was done with the following line of code in
my `config.fish` file:

```text
set PATH /usr/local/bin /usr/local/sbin /usr/local/share/npm/bin /usr/local/opt/ruby/bin $HOME/bin $HOME/.tmuxifier/tmuxifier/bin $PATH
```

Umm... Those were the only real note-worthy parts. The rest were just a matter
of translating zsh to fish. You can find the latest version of my config files
here: <https://github.com/Greduan/dotfiles/tree/master/config/fish>

If there's something you think could be said better or is plain wrong in this
post feel free to [modify
it](https://github.com/Greduan/eduantech.docpad/blob/master/src/render/posts/switching-from-zsh-to-fish.html.md)
and make a pull request for it!

Thank you for reading! You can share your thoughts with me through email at
<eduanlavaque@gmail.com>. :)
