---
title: 3 Must-have Chrome extensions
layout: post
date: 2014-10-20
---

Probably my first post of this kind but I wanted to make sure to share these
cause they're awesome.

## OneTab

[OneTab][onetab] is an extension that allows you to save a lot of resources when
you're not on an 8GB+ laptop or PC.

[onetab]: http://www.one-tab.com/

Basically, when you click the OneTab button it takes all of your tabs, saves them
in a list, closes those tabs and opens the OneTab page with all your previously
closed tabs.

This allows you to save up to GBs of RAM because the tabs are not actually open,
but you still have access to them if you want to check them out later.

I use this mostly as a reset button for my session.  If I notice I have too many
tabs open then I click OneTab and then open the ones I actually need.

And if you want, it's also available for Firefox.  :)

Check out [its website][onetab].  It's a really good looking site.

## The Great Suspender

[The Great Suspender][tgs] is similar to OneTab in the way that it allows you to
"suspend" tabs, but it differs from OneTab where it doesn't look as nice and that
it doesn't close the tabs.  The tabs stay there but they're in a suspended mode,
you can reload the tabs by clicking.

[tgs]: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/the-great-suspender/klbibkeccnjlkjkiokjodocebajanakg?hl=en

It has a feature where you can automatically suspend tabs after a certain amount
of time of inactivity.  It has a whitelist feature in order to not automatically
suspend certain tabs.

It's available on the [Chrome web store][tgs] and also has a [GitHub repo][gtgs].

[gtgs]: https://github.com/deanoemcke/thegreatsuspender

## uBlock

Everybody knows Adblock or Adblock Plus.  [uBlock][ublock] is a better
alternative to these.

[ublock]: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/%C2%B5block/cjpalhdlnbpafiamejdnhcphjbkeiagm

It is [lighter and faster][ublock-light] than ABP, however it doesn't stop
working because of that.

[ublock-light]: https://github.com/gorhill/uBlock/wiki/%C2%B5Block-vs.-ABP:-efficiency-compared

It is available on the [Chrome web store][ublock], it has a
[GitHub repo][ublock-github] and is also available on Opera.

[ublock-github]: https://github.com/gorhill/uBlock

I've been using it myself for the last couple of days and I definitely feel a
speed difference.  I recommended it to somebody with a slightly underpowered
computer (for today's standards) and he definitely noticed a difference in
performance.

-----

That's it.  Those are the extensions.  You might notice these extensions are
mainly about being lighter than you might get with Chrome by default or with
other alternative extensions.
