---
title: What the gut feeling is for me
layout: post
date: 2014-04-30
---

I acknowledge that the gut feeling works different for everyone, and it seems
women have a different kind of gut feeling called a "woman's instinct" or
something like that. But I'm gonna talk about my experience with my gut feeling
and how maybe you could start using it.

Now, in my experience, the gut feeling has not been what I feel in my gut, so
let's start by putting that out there.

Now, the gut feeling for me has been an interesting experience. The way my gut
feeling coems for me is the first thought that comes to mind pretty much.

I am better at judging people I just met by gut feeling than by analysation. The
first time I meet someone I trust my gut feeling as what I work off from to
analyze. No matter how nice or how insensitive a person seems, it's the gut
feeling that tells me if they could be good friends, bad friends, or the kind
that seems like a good friend but screws you over behind your back.

For example, if I meet someone and they're very charming and all, but something
at the back of my head pokes at me like "I don't like this person", I will trust
that poke, because most of the time it has been right, and if it was wrong,
there's always a second time, the analysation stage. BTW, one of the reasons
I don't hangout with as much people as I probably should, gut feeling telling me
no.

But that's just meeting people. Eating food works similarly, except this one
could save my life quite directly. I have never eaten something that gives me
a bad feeling. I don't judge meat by how it looks, I judge it by my body saying
yes or no.

I should mention at this point, gut feeling is not always everything. You know,
you're not gonna cheat on your wife or girlfriend because your body is saying
yes, it's times like these that the mind has to come in and put the body under
control and say "NO".

Have you ever had that feeling where you just feel like you have to do
something? Or you've done it before you realize? I haven't had quite an like
that experience myself, but I was witness to one.

While in Argentina there was this pizza delivery-man, he was leaving for
a delivery and had the pizza on the back, whatever. He stored the pizza and got
on the bike (a motorcycle), as he was starting it, with the most fluid movements
I remember in my life, he got off. Like 1 second later a car crashed against his
bike (lightly). Now what's interesting is that the car came from nowhere, he
could not see it or hear it, I didn't myself as I was facing the same general
direction he was.

When the car crashed the guy was bewildered, he looked bewildered at least, he
had no idea what had just happened. He just got off his bike without knowing why
and a second later a car crashed against his bike.

The way I see it, that's gut feeling and your body answering without giving you
a choice. My mom experienced something similar, had she not scooted over by like
10, 20cm, a car would have hit her, this is one time she was coming out of
a cab, although I didn't see this one myself, it's a story she shared with me.

This is a long post, but in the end I guess the point is, don't ignore your gut
feeling. And everybody has it, those that have it more just know how or when to
listen to it.

Next time you met a person, trust your gut feeling, it'll probably something so
basic you'll almost miss. For me most of my gut feelings are the first thought
in my head when I am given a choice of some sort.

Have you had interesting experiences like the ones I shared above? How's your
gut feeling like? I'd love to hear, send me an email at
<eduanlavaque@gmail.com>. :)
