---
title: Real Science, Not Bullshit
date: 2014-02-22
tags:
    - blog
---
This one should be short.  But the point is, WTF.  It has always pissed me off
in anime, manga etc., even IRL, that the characters can't believe what's
actually happening right in front of them.

For example.  If in front a scientist a glowing light appeared they would say
it's not real and it can't happen, it can't be happening.  It cannot be
explained thus it has not happened and isn't happening.

This defies science itself.  Science is not about "can it be explained?",
science is about "if we do this 100 times, does it always happen the same way?".
That's science and not bullshit.  If it's happening in front of you, whether or
not you know why, whether you can explain it or not, whether you have any idea
what's going on or not, it's happening.

If something works every time, and it can be constantly proven a certain way,
whether it's right or not, whether it breaks some "laws of physics" or not, it's
happening.

I bet if something breaks the speed of light they'll say that's impossible
because the speed of light is unattainable except by light.  Even if it's
happening in front of them.

BTW, the laws of physics thing, pisses me off how they are called "laws", but
they are only a set of facts that have been proven to be true most of the time,
not going to say always.  If it suddently turns out gravity repels instead of
attracting, that's not possible because laws of physics.

According to the Oxford English dictionary, "is a theoretical principle deduced
from particular facts, applicable to a defined group or class of phenomena, and
expressible by the statement that a particular phenomenon always occurs if
certain conditions be present."

So it can be changed, but it seems they are set in stone and will never change
for some reason.

I dunno.  Just pisses me off, that is all.

Share your thoughts with me through email <eduanlavaque@gmail.com>.
