---
title: A technique to remember small stuff
layout: post
date: 2014-04-30
edited: 2014-05-01
---

This post is to share something that I've found quite useful, and seems to work
quite consistently.

Have you ever tried to remember a name? And I mean one that you know, but forgot
when you need it, not one that you heard 10 years ago and there's probably no
chance you'll remember.

I'll give you an example so that you get the idea of how it works.

The other day I was recommending to someone an certain artist, and I liked the
artist and all, but I couldn't remember the name. I couldn't remember it,
I tried for several minutes.

Then I decided to do something, [trust my gut
feeling](http://eduantech.com/2014/04/wtgfifm.html), turns out the gut feeling
works great for memory.

What I did was I asked myself "what's his name?" and I considered the first
things that came to mind, in my case it was only one, the letter "T" came to
mind. So I said, OK, that's his name's first letter.

So I said, starting with "T", what's his name... "Toshi" came to mind but that's
not right. I did notice it was closer to it though, beause it resonated with my
memory (best way I can come up to describe what I felt).

I decided something was missing, so I repeated to myself "Toshi" over and over.
Then suddenly I realized his name was "Toshio" and I was like "I got it!", but
I still felt like something was missing so I kept repeating "Toshio" to myself.
After 15 seconds of that I figured it out, the name I was looking for was
"Toroshio", and I was content with that so that was it.

This is just an example, I don't think someone named "Toroshio" exists, just the
first thing that came to mind for this example.

But the point is, I went several times with the first answer that came up. This
is usually good to remember all kinds of stuff. Ever looked for what you were
talking about before you got into a heated argument? This works quite well "well
we were talking about ____", after that most people would say "nah that was much
earlier", maybe it wasn't, work off from that and you'll soon remember what it
was. Unless the argument was completely unrelated to whatever started it.

Anyway, I hope this helps. This doesn't describe it very well, but in a short
amount of words it's basically asking yourself "what is it?" and the first thing
that comes to mind will probably be it, and continue with it until you remember
the whole thing.

With a name you could go letter by letter, "did it start with an E?" if your gut
feeling says yes, then it is, then go "the second letter was a T I think..." and
continue like that until boom, you've got the whole name.

Hope that helps. Share any method you know to remember stuff with my email at
<eduanlavaque@gmail.com>. :)

Edit: I was talking with a friend about memory but I didn't mention this
technique and at some point he said "like in layers" and I thought that was the
best way to describe this technique. Do it in layers and don't deny what comes
up, see where it takes you. :)
