---
title: My Trip to Switzerland, Part 1, Getting There
layout: post
date: 2014-01-15
tags:
    - blog
---
I'd like to make it clear that this will probably be writen over several
sessions over several days.  I've mentioned several times that I won't have good
internet during the time I'm over here, so I'm sticking to that.  Sorry if some
info is inconsistent, I'll do my best to keep it consistent.

Also the time and date formats will be kept as near to the Switzerland method
for written time as possible, since I like it.  I.E. time is in 24 hour format
and dates use "." in between and it's a `DD.MM.YYYY` format, not the crazy
`MM/DD/YYYY` format USA uses.  Swear to god all they need to do is make a USD
worth 99 cents and they will have officially messed up their entire numerical
system.

Also I'll be skipping all the drama and just get to the point.  I won't add
unnecessary info that doesn't really matter, though people would usually tell
you all about it.  lol

---

This was written the 15.01.2014 at 11:40.

All right so first of all the packing.  It wasn't all that special TBH.  Well
mine wasn't, my family's was.

I took two shirts, 1 polo, 2 jeans, like 9 pair of socks and less than 8 pairs
of underwear.  Plus some stuff for the cold.  That's all.  I'm not really sure
about the rest of my family.  lol

So we left at around 12:30 from Taxco de Alarcon (IIRC) on a bus to Cuernavaca,
once that got there we got in a Taxi and went to another bus terminal where we
would get a bus that goes directly to the airport.  So we did.

So we got to the airport and we just checked-in, no troubles, we ate some and
then we just waited to board the plane.

I'd like to point out at this point there was like a 50 person line to get on
the plane.  We were able to skip that thanks to my magic of my seat being moved
and letting me and my family just skip the whole line.  Yay for magic!

We flew with Lufthansa airlines. It was a really nice service, the staff was
very nice and knew very good English.  Also everybody was good looking (but
that's to be expected from an airline, AFAIK).

We arrived ahead of schedule, I'm told, but we left behind schedule, I'm told.
So I guess I'm just really good at planes.  lol

Then we took another air plane but this one was just a 45 minute flight or so.

Next step was to take a bus to the train station and ride the train to the
Grenchen Nord station.  So we missed our stop, not really but we didn't know
that the doors had to be opened manually (by pressing a button) so we missed the
stop.

We contacted our friends over here and they told us to just take the train to
the Grenchen Süd station, which was actually nearer to our destination (but
required a train switch).

So we rode the train to Grenchen Süd, this time we knew how to open the door,
got off and familiar faces were there so all is well.

Got a car ride to the place we're staying at, unpacked a bit, took a shower and
went to sleep.

And we're back to the present time of me writing this. I actually just woke up
and I have no internet, everybody else just started waking up.

OK so now to the all important lessons (that I can remember) learned of every
trip:

- For god's sake keep calm! It is not nice to be nervous or to be around someone
  that's nervous.
- Travelling on air planes isn't as special as it used to be.  Now there's
  screens on the seats and all kinds of stuff to cheat with getting
  entertainment.
- Buses and trains require you to open the door, they will *not* open alone at
  every stop.  Know where you're going and at which stop it is you're getting
  off.
- If on a new area, keep track of what people are doing, it will help you figure
  out what to do yourself.

And those are all I can think of. This was written in one go so it should be
fairly consistent.

If you find any typo (especially with names) please [make a pull
request](https://github.com/Greduan/eduantech.docpad/blob/master/src/render/posts/my-trip-to-switzerland-part-1.html.md)
fixing it and I will happily merge. :)

Thank you for reading! You can share your thoughts with me through email at
<eduanlavaque@gmail.com>. :)
