---
title: My switch to OpenBSD
layout: post
date: 2015-04-18
---

So I switched to OpenBSD, and this blog post is here to talk about.  Today is
the 18th of April, 2015.  I'm stating that because this blog post may be written
across several days and I wanna make sure you're aware of that.

And just for some context, I'm an experienced Linux user.  Been using Linux for
almost 3 years straight, no Windows crap in between.  Though the first 6 months
were on OS X cause I was scared of Linux at the time.

Ricer is usually a term used to refer to people that change the look of their
setup to make it look very attractive, outside of the defaults of whatever
environment they have.  Me being an under-the-bonnet ricer means I don't care
about looks, I just care about my own workflow, and making solutions and
adjusting every little nook and cranny to make sure it fits *my* workflow.

Because of my nature I've had to reinstall Arch 3 times cause I broke it and
have been stuck with CRUX for a while, cause that's a fun distro to play with.

OK, on with BSD.

## Why?

Why OpenBSD?  Why not FreeBSD or NetBSD or DragonflyBSD or any other BSD?  Why
BSD in the first place?

<!-- remove redundant stuff above

Like I mentioned above, I've been a Linux user for several years, and I got
tired of Linux, I wanted to try something new.  Recently I've been getting into
being all POSIX-compliant and stuff and GNU's coreutils have been grinding on
my nerves with that stuff, so I decided to switch to *BSD.

_Sidenote: Why does the GNU `sort` command have an `-R` flag which *randomises*
the result?  You can't sort something into being random.  That's an oxymoron
(with a particular choice of definitions)._

Though Linux is awesome, the OS on top of it I don't like, so I wanted to switch
to something better, that something was *BSD.

Now why OpenBSD instead of another *BSD?  First of all cause my friends at
[Nixers.net][n] prefer OpenBSD (those that prefer *BSD).  It's good to switch
to a system where you know several people that use it daily, or did, way more
painless and fun of an experience.

[n]: http://nixers.net/

Secondly, in December I did try to switch to FreeBSD.  It was another time that
was favorable for me to switch, but I had trouble getting X to work and at that
point I really needed a working OS.  This time I didn't want to deal with the X
stuff so I just went ahead and installed OpenBSD which I had heard had excellent
X support out of the box, and holy shit it does.

And thirdly because of the security orientation that the whole project has.
That is a really attractive feature for me.

## First impressions

Today is my first day with OpenBSD but the short version is I am absolutely
loving it.

Just so you know, I'm on OpenBSD 5.6-stable.

### The install

The install is certainly "weird" for me, coming from more manual Linux distros
where I format the harddrives, mount the partitions, write the fstab, etc. all
manually.  It was pleasant though.  Somehow I don't feel dirty with a clean
install of OpenBSD as I do with a clean install of any Linux.  Probably the lack
of GNU.  lol

But yeah, I was expecting a slightly more graphical install, since I already
experienced the FreeBSD install, but I'm fine with text prompts.

### X and hardware support

The X support was incredible, simply incredible.  I enabled xdm to start with
but quickly disabled it cause I've my own `.xinitrc` file.

The support for all my hardware and touchpad and all of that is awesome.

The only thing that isn't supported is my wifi card.  A dreaded BCM4315.  That
would have been a deal breaker some months ago but now I have an extra long
ethernet so it's fine.  This is a laptop though so I need to buy that wifi
dongle...

The audio is working great out of the box.  My laptop speakers and audio jack
work fine.

### Ports/packages system

The ports/packages system is something I really like in OpenBSD.  Kinda sad CVS
is still used over Git for the ports, but that ain't gonna stop me from liking
it.  Seriously though y u no Git?

I like how it's decentralised.  A ton of mirrors counts as decentralised for me.
lol

### Getting to a working state

<!-- TODO: status of bug

As a Node.js dev it can be a little hard to get started if you're used to using
[`nvm`][nv] because of a little bug which I [already reported][gi].  By the time
you read this it'll already be fixed most probably.

[nv]: https://github.com/creationix/nvm
[gi]: https://github.com/creationix/nvm/issues/733

Though Node v0.10 is included in the packages so I can still work, just not with
the latest and greatest.  I expect that to get updated to v0.11 or v0.12 in
OpenBSD v5.7 though.

Other than that, everything has been very smooth so far.  Some software I like
isn't in the packages but I can compile that myself so there's no issue, and it
may even be in the next release so I'm not too worried.

Yesterday I installed OpenBSD and was able to login into stuff and catchup a bit
with what I missed during the day (cause I spent a good while on figuring out
why my wifi didn't work).  Today I spent ricing the workflow a bit and it's been
all smooth.  tomorrow I'll have time to actually work.

If you want a quick "how long would it take me from inserting the USB to getting
to work?" the answer varies on your internet, but I'd say with a crude setup
it's less than half an hour, easy.

## Verdict

Notice I didn't say "final verdict", that's cause there's more to come in the
future from me about OpenBSD.

If you're considering switching to OpenBSD, totally go for it.  There is nothing
stopping you but yourself.
