---
title: My slow switch to Emacs
template: post.html
date: 2014-06-08
---

I'm going to come out and say that I like Emacs.  As a platform, not as an
editor mind you.

I am using [Evil][evil] as is probably to be expected.  I have become so
accustomed to Vim that without some sort of Vim emulation I cannot survive in
another editor.

[evil]: http://www.emacswiki.org/emacs/Evil

This is why I'm using Evil and I am slowly, but surely, using Emacs more and
more, making little modifications that make it nicer and and more comfortable
for me.  I'll soon probably have to write a couple of plugins in order to
achieve some Vim behaviour I like though, that'll be fun.

Of course [my dotfiles][dotfiles] have all my configs, can't promise they'll be
as up-to-date as they sometimes have been, because there are lots of changes
going on and that would be a very big amount of insignificant commits if
I committed everything.

[dotfiles]: https://github.com/Greduan/dotfiles/tree/master/emacs.d

So I just wanted to share that. If I ever need to use Vim in a remote server or
for pair programming, I'm open and if I need to use Emacs I'm also open, unless
it's Emacs without Evil, in which case I am closed.

I have NO clue how Emacs users could use `C-f` for moving right by one, `C-b`
for back one, `C-n` to move down one and `C-p` to go up one.  It's crazy, their
hands move ALL OVER the keyboard, and they say it's fine.  Whoever says that is
either bored or crazy or both.  Or something.

That is all.  Feel free to share anything you want on my dotfiles by forking
them or what have you. :)
