---
title: Get it together Linux users/devs!
template: post.html
date: 2014-10-05
---

This is a rant for Linux users.  Take it as an (angry) man letting people know
his opinions.

First let's start with unity.  (GNU/)Linux users are either united or they're
not.  The attitude in this community is that if you don't like something about
the distro you're using just go ahead and make a new one.  Yeah thanks for the
advice.

You don't like something about the WM you're using?  Make a new one.

And I'm not particularly bothered by the "put it up or make it up" attitude,
that's completely fine.  What bothers me is how separated the WHOLE community is.

There are thousands of distros, all with their own spin on stuff.  Most, if not
all of them feel some kind of elitism for the distro they use.

Arch Linux users, their distro is incredibly awesome.  In my years with it (a
couple) I haven't seen a single political debate over whether one approach to
something should be used over another (i.e. Systemd vs. Busybox or something).
I mean of course users argue, that's always gonna happen because Linux seems to
be infested with angry people all over the place.  But for a team to be arguing
about what direction to go (i.e. Debian) I find extremely ridiculous.

OK so thousands of distros.  Hundreds of window managers, floating, tiling,
hybrids, dynamic, tiling with a twist, tags, workspaces, gravities, mouse or not,
for christ's sake give it a rest!

This situation where it's everybody against everybody is the exact reason why
stuff like OS X is more attractive to users.  TBH it's more attractive to me, the
only reason I don't use it, although I have been tempted countless times, is
because I have a strong resolution to not buy into a commercialism mentality
which is exactly what Apple has.  New product comes out GO BUY IT!

And in all their super nice hardware and commercialist attitude, they got one
thing right, although not exactly in the best way.  What they got right was that
they made it very easy for developers, develop for the latest version or your
software will go unused.  They do it through planned obsolescency, but Arch Linux
could very well do it just because all the people that use it will only use the
latest of the stuff.

They got another thing right.  There is no divide in the developers.  there is
no debate whether to use Qt or GTK+.  Everybody has only one option.  And I'm not
saying the debate is bad, but the sheer amount of time that we spend in these
debates is just ridiculous.  I'll settle it for you.  GTK+ can use C OR C++, so
it's better in that sense.  Qt is limited to C++ BUT it's got way better
cross-platform support.  There, that's what the argument should boil down to.

In the end I'm sure somebody will be like "oh if it's so easy why don't you do
it?" or "just do the software you want then!".

That's not my point.  My point is STOP BEING SO ANGRY AT EACH OTHER!

Windows devs get one choice, a really shitty one but it's one.  OS X devs get
one choice, perhaps great or perhaps shitty, I dunno, but it's only one choice.
Linux devs get hundreds, if not thousands of distros to choose from.  They need
to package in who knows how many formats.  They may need to develop in I dunno
how many frameworks for shit to work right.

Linux is sorta Lisp all over again.  Cool great, you convinced me, I wanna use
Linux, where should I start?  Well you've got all of these distros to choose
from.  At least with Lisp the argument is easier.  OK I wanna do Lisp, which
one should I start with?  Well depends on your program, and if you don't like
one you can just install another.  With Linux you gotta re-install the entire OS
to change it.

Point is, stop fighting.  Figure out a distro you like, use it, be nice to each
other, don't give somebody shit cause they're newbs or they don't know how to use
the CLI or when they don't use the distro YOU like.  Let me remind you, we want
more casual users.  The way we're going we may never have a lot of casual users
like OS X or Windows.

I dunno if I got my point across, but at least I said it so now I feel better.
Just be nicer.  I don't care what you do or how much time you have to waste for
it, just be nicer and more united.  Please.

That is all.

P.S.: The post.html title is a play on words, get it?
