---
title: My experience with the BSPWM and Sxhkd
template: post.html
date: 2014-05-14
---

In this post.html I'm going to, as you might have guessed, talk about the
[BPSPM](https://github.com/baskerville/bspwm/) window manager along with its
partner tool that's almost impossible to live without,
[Sxhkd](https://github.com/baskerville/sxhkd) a simple X hotkey daemon.

Some people may have trouble understanding the concept of a tree structure for
the windows in a window manager, but basically, every window is inside
a container, that container can act as a window or as a container of two other
containers, each of which can act like a window or as a container of two other
containers, each of which... etc.

This allows for very complex, advanced and simple to do organization of your
windows.

Right now, TBH I can only work with these kinds of editors because they're the
only ones that make sense for my workflow, in which almost no virtual desktop is
used for the same thing every time. The idea of a master window doesn't really
work for me TBH.

However because of this tree like structure for organizing the windows it only
has two templates, monospaced, which basically only has one window on the screen
no mater how many there are on the desktop or tiled, which allows you to take
advantage of all of this crazyness that is a tree structure.

i3 has a similiar structure, i3 describes it's structure as a tree, BSPWM
describes it's own as a binary space, actually it's description is "A tiling
window manager based on binary space partitioning".

Anyway, my experience with it, super nice for everything except setting up
Dzen2, my preferred program to use as a bar with my window managers. Had to
spend quite a bit of time with this.

If you have experience with the shell you'll probably notice right away why
Sxhkd is more powerful than something like xmodmap:
<https://github.com/Greduan/dotfiles/blob/84adea6901215c9e41a5ce2dae77e0406bce734a/config/sxhkd/sxhkdrc>

You can find all of my BSPWM config here:
<https://github.com/Greduan/dotfiles/tree/84adea6901215c9e41a5ce2dae77e0406bce734a/config/bspwm>

And a little bit in the `.zprofile` file:
<https://github.com/Greduan/dotfiles/blob/84adea6901215c9e41a5ce2dae77e0406bce734a/zprofile>

Here's a nice GIF by windelicato about why BSPWM:
<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/windelicato/dotfiles/master/why_bspwm.gif>

Final verdict, it's nice but still in the trial stage, may go back to i3...
