---
title: "Syntax highlighting: off"
template: post.html
date: 2015-08-01
tags: editor
draft: true
---

The point of this blog post is talk about why you might want to turn off syntax
highlighting, and if you do, some stuff you might need to consider that you
probably never did before.

In this blog post I'm going to talk about stuff regarding no syntax
highlighting. Whenever I mention it to other programmers they're like "WTF" so I
thought I'd write a blog post explaining it.

You may hear me write "highlighting" instead of "syntax highlighting", that's
just cause it's a pain to write two words several hundreds of times in one blog
post.

And to be clear, I don't think I'm superior to you newbs who use syntax
highlighting, I'm just writing this blog post so I can explain it once and no
longer have to think about this issue.

## Why I no syntax highlight

The reason I started is because I was in a system in which I didn't have Vim, I
thought this is a good challenge and only used `vi` instead of Vim. Very
educative experience. One of the things I struggled with was `vi`'s lack of
syntax highlighting. It just doesn't have a syntax engine.

So for like a month I had no syntax highlighting, maybe two, and when I came
back to Vim, the highlighting was simply too bright. I simply could not
concentrate on the code because of the colours. So I simply stopped using
highlighting.

Although for the last couple weeks I have been using highlighting, it's because
I couldn't figure out how to disable it in Vim (with the `.vimrc`), I figured it
out today and turned it off.

I'll talk more in depth on the why, besides the fact that I find it distracting,
later on.

## Stuff you don't think about

This is something I realized only later on, but after editing without
highlighting for a while I noticed some stuff that people with highlighting
probably don't often realize.

### Style

First, you may not realize, but your style choices in your code that you may
find very readable with highlighting, can sometimes be extremely unreadable
without highlighting. Why?

Well for a simple reason, without highlighting you don't have colors to give you
hints about what code is or is doing, for that you depend on the fact that
you're reading it and on context clues with how the code is formatted and stuff.

Some people forget about these clues because they have highlighting and their
code becomes absolutely terrible to read without highlighting.

### Font

When a coder that uses highlighting chooses a font he chooses it out of what he
or she likes best, what's prettier or whatever his or her preference is. When
you don't use highlighting you choose it on one thing only, how readable is it?
Does it make it easier or harder to read my code? How well designed is this font
that my eyes and my mind have an easier time reading it?

### Comments

This is something I didn't realize until later on in my no syntax highlight
career, but your comments become more meaningful. You can no longer derive
meaning from colors, as there are no colors, so your comments actually help you
navigate your code.

I checked and my comments with highlighting are way more sparse and less helpful
than those I write when I have no highlight. With no highlight my comments are
found way more often and they are found in places where they are genuinely
helpful to skim the content or explain functionality.

## I still have highlighting

I still have highlighting, it's not like I just completely get rid of colors,
colors are useful in stuff like diffs or calling your attention to certain
places, like the status bar.

I just no longer have *syntax* highlighting, because I find that to be too
distracting when reading and working with code.

## More info

For more information on no syntax highlighting, you can look at these couple of
links:

- http://www.linusakesson.net/programming/syntaxhighlighting/
- https://www.robertmelton.com/2016/03/21/syntax-highlighting-off/

### Turning off syntax highlighting in (Neo)Vim

The command `:syntax off` turns off syntax highlighting but only for the current
session, and I've found that having `syntax off` in the rc file may not always
work, since some plugins may override it or whatever. So the best way I've found
of doing this is using:

```
autocmd! BufEnter * syntax off
```
