---
title: Block devices in OpenBSD
collection: posts
layout: post.html
date: 2015-04-30
tags: openbsd
draft: true
---

So switching from Linux, one thing that has struck me as odd is OpenBSD's device
names for stuff.

For example, in Linux `/dev/sda1` is the first partition of the first drive of
its kind, `/dev/sdb2` is the second partition of the second drive of its kind,
etc.  The third character ("a" and "b") determined the drive while the integer
determined the partition number.  It is quite logical, you just need to know the
partition numbers you're dealing with and you're set.

But in OpenBSD it's different, my main harddrive is `wd0`, and to be honest I
have no idea how to refer to the root partition, swap partition etc.  I do know
that `wd0c` represents the whole harddrive (similar to `/dev/sda`).

But all the drives that I've connected through USB are always `sd0` or `sd1`,
and again adding a "c" at the end there makes it refer to the whole drive.

So as a Linux user I am very confused, it doesn't seem very logical.

So what I've done is learn how this system works and write about it, so that
other Linux users switching to OpenBSD don't have to learn it all from the
beginning.  You're welcome.

## Device names

Let's begin by clearing something up.  And that is that OpenBSD names its
devices according to the hardware itself, not to the general interface they use.
What does that mean?

Well for example, in Linux ethernet is `eth0`, `eth1` and so on.  In OpenBSD my
ethernet is `bce0`, the reason being that I have a Broadcom ethernet chip.  So
it's "bc" for BroadCom and "e" for Ethernet, and "0" cause it's the first device
of its kind, had I more ethernet cards of the same model I would have `bce1`,
`bce2` and so on.

If I wanted to I could alias `bce0` to `eth0` though.

So my harddrive being named `wd0` is probably cause it's a Western Digital?  Not
sure what its brand is but that's what I can come up with.

## Partition names

## Callout to BSD users

Did I write this correctly?  Did I make any (technical) errors? Is this unique
to OpenBSD or is it also the same case on other BSDs?

Would be nice to hear about that from other BSD users.  I'll be updating the
blog post accordingly if it's necessary.
