---
title: Kakoune
collection: posts
layout: post.html
date: 2016-10-01
---

In this blog post I will try to convince you about the greatness of Kak,
the people who will benefit are those that are using Vim or a vi-like layer
on top of their normal editors.  I'm a Vim veteran and have switched to Kak
full time, so I feel qualified.

Kakoune is great pronounced "kak-oon", though the "oon" is a short vowel.
If you haven't heard about it, take a look at [its website][kak].  Bask in
its glory.

[kak]: http://kakoune.org

We'll get to how awesome it is in a second, but first let's explain some
basic concepts you may have noticed.

## Selections

In Vim as you may be aware you have three main modes, normal, visual and
insert.  Normal and visual are basically the same in terms of movement, except
in visual you are manipulating a selection, though there are some differences
that you have to keep in mind between these.  And of course insert is insert.

In Kak you only have two main modes, normal and insert.  Where in normal mode
you have an incredibly expressive language to define selections.  And insert
mode lets you "insert" or "append" text to each selection, not just where
the cursor is but rather wherever the selection is.

You may now be thinking "isn't this the same as multiple cursors just a
bit fancier?" and if that's the case, you are mistaken.  Selections are not
cursors, they're just that, selections.

Think of it this way, if you have cursors you need to potentially keep track
of four pieces of data:

- Where is my cursor or cursors
- What have they selected
- How can I manipulate these cursors..
- ..and what will happen to their selections when I manipulate the cursor

In Kak it's much simpler, as it has no cursors, it only needs to keep track
of potentially two things:

- What are my selections
- How can I manipulate them

This means that at no point are you dealing with the limitations of having
a cursor (or several) to begin with, you are only limited by how expressive
you can be to define these selections.  And I can assure you, in Kak you
can be *very* expressive.

An advantage of this approach is that since it's all selections, and only
selections, the whole interface is consistent, because now the bulk of your
activities will be defining the selections, not moving around a cursor.

## Consistent interface

In Kak the design is very consistent, because it's all selections.  Let me
show you examples.  This is me pressing `w` and `b` repeatedly:

!! GIF OF ME PRESSING `w` AND `b` REPEATEDLY !!

This is the same, but me pressing `W` and `B` (uppercased):

!! GIF OF ME PRESSING `W` AND `B` REPEATEDLY !!

Basically, the lower case versions selects from where the selection is until
the next point.  Upper case moves the selection until the next point without
throwing away the previous selection.

And this behaviour is consistent, all the uppercase versions extend selection,
all the lower case discard the previous selection.

Here's the famous multiple cursors example in Kak using the search feature:

!! GIF OF ME DOING `/word<ret>NNNcWORD` !!

What I did there was search for `word` and then press upper case `N`, in order
to extend the selection to the next match, then press `c` and type in `WORD`.

## Interaction with the shell

!! GIF OF ME DOING `<a-a>p|fmpt -w80<ret>` !!

Kak has built-in support for the shell.

This means the editor doesn't need a sorting functionality, it's builtin by
interaction with the shell.  It doesn't need to be aware of the system
clipboard, you can just use `xclip` (Linux) or `pb{copy,paste}` (macOS).

Here's a quick guide to shell interaction:

- `!` (`<a-!>`) insert (append) output of command into buffer
- `$` pipe selection(s) to command and filter out selections for which the command
  doesn't return exit code 0
- `|` pipe selection(s) to command and replace selection(s) with command's output
- `<a-|>` pipe selection(s) to command

## Sign off

Anyway, most likely this probably didn't convicne you to switch, so I encourage
you to try it out.  Here are some other perks:

- The community is very supportive and responsive
- Development is active and not a (benevolent) dictatorship
